you
this lecture is about the mixture of
unigram language models in this lecture
we will continue discussing proper risk
with hopping models in particular we're
going to introduce a mixture of unigram
language models this is a slide that you
have seen earlier where we talked about
how to get rid of the background
words that we'll have on top of
estimated at land with model for one
document so if you want to solve the
problem I will be useful to think about
why we end up having this problem well
this is obvious because these words are
very frequently in our data and we are
using a maximum likelihood estimator and
then the estimator obviously would have
to assign high probabilities for these
words in order to maximize the like hole
so in order to get rid of them that
would mean we have to do something
different here
in particular we have to say that this
distribution doesn't have to explain all
the words in the text data or we're
going to say these common words should
not be explained by this distribution so
one natural way to solve the problem is
to think about using another
distribution to account for just these
common words this way the truth
distributions can be mixed together we
generated the text data and we'll let
the other model which we called
background topic model to generate the
common words this way our target in the
topic and theta here would be only
generating the common words that
characterize the content of the document
so how does this work well it's just a
small modification of the previous setup
where we have just one distribution
since we now have two distributions we
have to decide which is distribution to
use when we generate the word but each
word will still be sample from one of
the two distributions right so text
there are is still generally in the same
way
namely we're gonna generate the one word
at each time and eventually generate a
lot of words when we generate the world
however we are going to first decide
which of the two distributions to use
and this is controlled by another
probability probability of theta sub D
and probability of philosophic beat here
so this is the probability of selecting
the topic or distribution this is the
probability of selecting the background
water distribution denoted by the theta
sub B now in this case I just gave an
example where we can set both to 0.05 so
if you will look basically flip a coin a
fair coin to decide what you want to use
but in general these probabilities don't
have to be equal so you might be biased
toward using one top of the more than
the other so now the process of
generating a word would be to first to
flip a coin based on these probabilities
of choosing each model and if let's say
the coin shows up as head which means
we're going to use the topic of water
distribution then we're going to use
this water distribution to generate a
word otherwise we might be going through
this path and we're going to use the
background or distribution to generate a
word so in such a case we have a model
that has some uncertainty associated
with the use of a word decision but we
can still think of this as a model for
generating text there and such a model
is called a mixture model so now let's
see in this case what's the probability
of observing a war W now I here I show
you some words like the and the text so
as in all cases and once we set up on
the model we are interested in computing
the likelihood function the basic
question is so what's the probability of
observing a specific world here now we
know that that the world can be observed
from each of the two distribution so we
have to consider two cases therefore
it's a
over these two cases the first case is
to use the topic water distribution to
cannulate the world and in such a case
than the probability there would be the
probability of theta sub D which is the
probability of choosing the model
multiplied by the probability of
actually observing the water from that
model both events must happen in order
to observe the we first must have chosen
the topic sillas of D and then we also
have to actually have sampled water from
the distribution and similarly the
second part accounts for a different way
of generating the world from the
background
now obviously the probability of text
the same is all similar right so we also
consider two ways of generating text and
each case it's a product of the
probability of choosing a particular
word is repeating multiplied by the
probability of observing the word from
that distribution now later you will see
this is actually a general form so you
might want to make sure that you have
really understood this expression here
and you should convince yourself that
this is indeed the probability of
observing text so to summarize what we
observe here the probability of award
from mixture model is in general a sum
over all different ways of generating
the world and in each case it's a
product of the probability of selecting
that component model multiplied by the
probability of actually observing that
they are appointed from that component
model and this is something highly
general and you will see this occurring
often later so the basic idea of a
mixture model is just well treated these
these two distributions together as one
model so I use the box to bring all
these components together so if you view
this whole box as one model it's just
like any other generative model
we'll just give us the probability of a
world but the way the determines this
probability is quite different from when
we have just one distribution and this
is basically a more complicated mixture
model sorry more competent model than
just a one distribution and it's called
a mixture model so as I just said we can
treat this as just a generative model
and it's often useful to think of just
the like our function the illustration
that we have seen before which is dimma
now it's just the illustration of this
generative model so mathematically this
model this is nothing but to just this
define the following generative model
where the probability of world is
assumed to be a sum over two cases of
generating the world and the form you
are seeing now is a more general form
than what you have seen in the
calculation earlier where I just used a
simple W to denote any word but you can
still see this is basically first a sum
right and this sum is due to the fact
that the word can be generated in
multiple ways two ways in this case and
inside some each term is a product again
of two terms and the two terms are first
the probability of selecting a component
like theta sub D second the probability
of actually observing the world from
this component model and so this is a
very general description of in fact all
the mixture models and I just want to
make sure that you understand this
because this is really the basis for
understanding all hands on top of models
so now once we set up at the model and
we can write down that likelihood
function as we see here the next
question is how can we estimate the
parameter or what to do with the
parameters are given the data well in
general we can use some observer texts
there are two estimated model parameters
and this estimation would allow us to
disk
the interest technology about the
texture so in this case what do we
discover well these are represented by
our parameters and we have two kinds of
parameters one is the to world
distributions those are two topics and
the other is the coverage of each topic
in each in the coverage of each topic
and this is a determinable probability
of exceedance of T and problem theta sub
B note that this sum to 1 now what's
interesting is also to think about the
special cases like when we set one of
them to 2 1 what would happen well with
the other would be 0 right and if you
look at the likelihood function it will
then degenerated to the special case of
just one discrete right so you can
easily verify that by assuming one of
these two is one point zero and the
other is zero so in this sense the
mixture model is more general than the
previous model where we have just one
distribution and it can cover that as a
special case so to summarize and we
talked about the mixture of two unigram
language models and the data we are
considering here is justice near one
document and the model is a mixture
model with two components two unigram
lambda models specifically theta sub D
which is intended to denote the topic of
talking T and theta sub B which is
representing a background topic that we
can set to attract the common words
because common words would be assigned
the high probabilities in this model so
the parameters can be collectively
called a lambda which I show here again
and you can again think about the
question about how many parameters are
we talking about exactly this is usually
a good exercise to do because it allows
you to see the model in depth and to
have a complete understanding of what's
going on in this model and we have
mixing weights of course also so what is
the likelihood function look like well
looks very similar to what we had before
so it's so for the document first it's a
product over all the words in the
document exactly the same as before the
only difference is that inside here now
it's a Sun instead of just one so you
might recall before we just had this one
yeah but now we had this some because of
the mixture model and because of the
mixture model we also we have to
introduce a probability of choosing that
particular component the distribution
and so this is just another way of
writing it and by using a product over
all the unique words in our vocabulary
instead of having a product over all the
positions in the document and this form
where we look at the different and
unique words is a convenient form for
computing the maximum likelihood
estimator later and the maximum
likelihood estimator is as usual just to
find the parameters that would maximize
its likelihood function and the
constraints here are of course two kinds
one is the word probabilities in each
topic you must or someone the other is
the choice of each topic a master
something
you